culture/landscape/built-environment/llagar.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: The Llagar
subtitle: the mysterious temple of a silent golden god
permalink: /culture/landscape/built-environment/llagar.html
toc: false
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: Built Environment
sidebar:
  nav: culture_full
---
{% epigraph '…algo asi como templos misteriosos de un dorado y silencioso dios' 'Magdalena Alperi' '' %}

{% newthought 'Strictly speaking,'%} a llagar is a cider press.[^2] However, as commonly used, in Asturias, a llagar can mean one of several things:
{% marginfigure 'mf01' 'assets/images/llagar_sobiganu.png' 'A drawing by José Maria Legazpi showing a *sobigañu* style cider press; common in Asturias for centuries, and still in use today.' %}
- a machine for pressing cider
- a building or space that is used for making cider
- a collection of equipment for making cider
- a company that makes cider[^1]

Here I am going to talk about the first three definitions, as they all come together on the *[casería](/culture/landscape/built-environment/casería.html)* to produce cider in a rural home setting. (The commercial *llagar* is something that I discuss [elsewhere](/visit/llagares/).)

## The Home Llagar
In a traditional casería there was almost always a llagar - a bodega for the making and storing of cider. The size and quality of the space and its implements determined by the size of the pumarada the caserío had, or the relative ingenuity of the owner. As the traditional farmstead practiced (as much as possible) a policy of autarky, the ability to produce one's own alcoholic beverage was just as important as the ability to produce one's own bread.

Ideally, the home llagar was situated facing north, was well ventilated, and dug into a hill to help keep it as cool as possible. It was build as large as practicable, in order to have sufficient room to work, and additional room to store multiple barrels and stacks of bottles of cider.

Inside this room would be an area or machine for chopping up apples, a press for extracting the juice, buckets and containers for catching the juice, and various barrels for fermenting the cider, as well as sufficient bottles for getting the family through the year. 

## Notes
[^1]: Méndez Riestra, Eduardo. _Diccionario de cocina y gastronomía de Asturias_. 1st ed., Trea, 2017. p 365-368
[^2]: See {% cite Rivas2004SidraAsturianaBebida -l 97 %} for a discussion of the usage of the word.

Commit message:

llagar-related changes from various sources
Signed-off-by: tillmanj <jontillman23@gmail.com>

culture/landscape/built-environment/llagar.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: The Llagar
subtitle: the mysterious temple of a silent golden god
permalink: /culture/landscape/built-environment/llagar.html
toc: false
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: Built Environment
sidebar:
  nav: culture_full
---
{% epigraph '…algo asi como templos misteriosos de un dorado y silencioso dios' 'Magdalena Alperi' '' %}

{% newthought 'Strictly speaking,'%} a llagar is a cider press.[^2] However, as commonly used, in Asturias, a llagar can mean one of several things:
{% marginfigure 'mf01' '/assets/images/cider/llagar_sobiganu.png' 'A drawing by José Maria Legazpi showing a *sobigañu* style cider press; common in Asturias for centuries, and still in use today.' %}
- a machine for pressing cider
- a building or space that is used for making cider
- a collection of equipment for making cider
- a company that makes cider[^1]

Here I am going to talk about the first three definitions, as they all come together on the *[casería](/culture/landscape/built-environment/casería.html)* to produce cider in a rural home setting. (The commercial *llagar* is something that I discuss [elsewhere](/visit/llagares/).)

## The Home Llagar
In a traditional casería there was almost always a llagar: a bodega for the making and storing of cider. The size and quality of the space and its implements determined by the size of the pumarada the caserío had or the relative ingenuity of the owner. As the traditional farmstead practiced (as much as possible) a policy of autarky, the ability to produce one's own alcoholic beverage was just as important as the ability to produce one's own bread.

While the design of the cider press and other equipment has changed over the centuries, from self-made wooden presses to mass-produced stainless steel ones for instance, the place of the cider press in rural Asturian homes has changed little. Emblematic of the *apego al terruño* (attachment to one's homeland) that is fundamental to much of the [Asturian character](/culture/landscape/culinary-mind/asturian-character.html), the cider press, in whatever form, traditional or modern, appears in almost every rural house that can afford it. Whether the owner is a full-time resident or only comes on the weekends to the *casa de pueblo* inherited (in common with siblings and cousins) from a grandparent is immaterial. The cider press is too important a marker of Asturian culture to let go of.

That said, there is no registry of these home cider presses, so reliable numbers are simply not to be had. Some suggestions can be found, in the sales of new presses for instance, but they are only that: suggestions.

## Design & Construction
Regardless of era, the home cider press is designed to be very economical, not just in construction, but in operation. Traditionally constructed from timber harvested from their own trees, or from a *monte communal*, the all wooden cider press was designed to be dismantled when not in use, and was commonly stored in the rafters of the cider making room (also, confusingly, called the *llagar*) on the farm.

Ideally, the home *llagar* building or room was situated facing north, was well ventilated, and was dug into a hill to help keep it as cool as possible. It was build as large as practicable, in order to have sufficient room to work, and additional room to store multiple barrels and stacks of bottles of cider.

Inside this room would be an area or machine for chopping up apples, a press for extracting the juice, buckets and containers for catching the juice, and various barrels for fermenting the cider, as well as sufficient bottles for getting the family through the "cider year".

## The *Añada de Sidra*
It is well known, or at least widely believed, in Asturias that the cider year (the *añada de sidra*) is 24 months, as odd-numbered years have good apple harvests, and even-numbered years have poor harvests.{% sidenote 'sn01' 'Biennial bearing, as it is called, has been a feature of fruit trees since their domestication. This is an attenuation of the natural years-long periods of high and low fruit production of wild trees. How to address this is an ongoing issue in Agronomy. See [Campbell & Kalcsits 2024](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eja.2024.12721) for the current state of the issue. Whether or not the whole of the Asturian crop is synched up in the even/odd good/bad cycle is another debate entirely.' %} This means that cider production on the farms tended to be twice as intensive, half as often - with many families making no cider in fallow years and instead relying on the stores laid up the previous year.

## Notes
[^1]: Méndez Riestra, Eduardo. _Diccionario de cocina y gastronomía de Asturias_. 1st ed., Trea, 2017. p 365-368
[^2]: See {% cite Rivas2004SidraAsturianaBebida -l 97 %} for a discussion of the usage of the word.
