culture/landscape/landscape_index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: The Culinary Landscape of Asturias
subtitle: All food expresses a geography and a culture
permalink: /culture/landscape/
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: Landscape
sidebar:
    nav: culture_full
description: Explore how both the natural and built environments of Asturias inform the indissoluble relationship between rural life and gastronomy.
---
{% epigraph 'Life — all life — is in the service of life. Necessary nutrients are made available to life by life in greater and greater richness as the diversity of life increases. The entire landscape comes alive, filled with relationships and relationships within relationships' 'Frank Herbert' 'Dune' %}

{% newthought 'What do I mean when I say' %} the *culinary landscape?* Do I mean the food system, in it's technocratic sense? Or do I mean the menu of food offerings available in a specific place -- the sociological factors that shape an industry that provides food to people?

I mean something different than either of those; I mean the hard facts that, right now, define the gastronomy of a place. Both the natural and the human conditions that make up the actually existing place. I think of that culinary landscape as being made up of three interdependent pieces; the **natural environment**, the **built environment**, and the **culinary mind**. Taken together, and defined mostly by their interplay, the culinary landscape emerges.

{% marginnote 'mn01' 'I am not dismissive of those concerns. I am simply not focused quite so heavily on them. There are many experts who write about food systems from a critical perspective that I enjoy reading and think are vital voices. Among them are [Marion Nestle](https://www.foodpolitics.com/), The [World Food System blog](https://www.foodsystemstories.org/) at ETH Zurich, [Charles Levkoe](https://link.springer.com/search?dc.creator=Charles%20Z.%20Levkoe), and [Molly D. Anderson](https://link.springer.com/search?dc.creator=Molly%20D.%20Anderson). ' %}I use this term to think about something that is usually missing from discussions of food systems. While technically a food system takes into account the physical and human factors of production and consumption, most discussion of food systems these days tends to either be focused on the global span of transportation systems that make up many macro-scale food systems, or on meta questions of environmental, racial, animal, and colonial issues. 

If food systems are comprised of four parts; production, processing, distribution, and consumption, then what I am talking about with the *culinary landscape* concept is the factors that shape and determine the first part of the food system - the production of food.


{% marginnote 'mn02' 'There is even more overlap between the concept of culinary landscape and that of what actual academics call *the [biocultural paradigm](https://socialsci.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Anthropology/Cultural_Anthropology/Cultural_Anthropology_(Evans)/01%3A_What_is_Anthropology/1.03%3A_Biocultural_Approach)*. I am looking at the culinary aspect of the interplay between nature and culture addressed in that paradigm.' %}
I suppose there is quite a bit of overlap between my term culinary landscape and the French term *terroir*, in that we are both interested primarily in the factors that influence the phenotype of of a crop: the environmental context, the farming practices, and the attitudes of the farmers producing them. Collectively these contextual characteristics have an effect on the crops that are grown - that is their *terroir*. They also have an effect on the habits, attitudes, and tastes, of the people who produce and consume those crops, especially when the four stages of a food system (production, processing, distribution, and consumption) are kept relatively local. That effect on the humans and their lived experiences makes up their culinary landscape.

When we talk about how the locations and processes used in Production and Processing impacts the organoleptic qualities of the food, we are discussing *terroir*. When we discuss how the geography, psychogeography, architecture, and infrastructure impact the locations and processes chosen for producing food, we are discussing *the culinary landscape*. 

## The Natural Landscape
{% marginfigure 'mf01' 'assets/images/640px-Brooklyn_Museum_-_Asturian_Landscape_(Paisaje_asturiano)_-_Joaquín_Sorolla_y_Bastida_-_overall.jpeg' 'Paisaje Asturiano, *Joaquín Sorolla, 1903*' %}
The natural environment is the geography, the climate, the soil, the plants and animals, both native and adapted. The human animal is included in this insofar as their attitudes and predilections are shaped by their surroundings. We as humans have not completely mastered nature. We are not capable of simply growing whatever we like, wherever we like. There are no Himalayan bananas nor Ghanaian cranberries - at least not yet. Cows and chickens much prefer to live on warm grasslands than on frozen tundra. These, and a thousand other factors, large and small, determine what kinds of plants and animals can thrive in an area. They also determine what techniques or technologies humans will employ to exploit those natural communities. We can be trusted to always aim for the low hanging fruit first, both literally and metaphorically.

In this part of the site, I explore the various natural factors that contribute to Asturian gastronomy - the mountains that cover more than 80% of the region, the sea with it's myriad of coves perfect for fishing ports, it's rolling hills with temperate oceanic climate, its limestone caves... Each of these things in some way contributes to what makes Asturian food what it is, and to what makes it unique. 

### Articles

- Year-Round Growing

## The Built Environment
{% marginfigure 'mf02' 'assets/images/El_Potrillo_en_el_Corral_-_Evaristo_Valle_1917.gif' 'El Potrillo en el Corral. *Valle, Evaristo. 1917.* Museo Evaristo Valle, Gijón' %}
The built environment is the changes we as humans have made to the landscape. Our farms, fields, houses, towns, cities, and infrastructure all become part of the wider culinary landscape. This is the area in which you see the most direct human impact on the culinary landscape, though that impact is in one way or another molded by the natural environment as well. At the point in time when most Asturian farms, towns, villages, and cities arose the technology did not exist to simply put a human habitation anywhere we wanted without considering the natural environment. There is no Asturian Las Vegas for instance (technically there are at least two them, but you get my point).

Here I explore all of the pieces of the landscape that make Asturias the agropolitan region that it is. From the iconic hórreos to the clusters of family farm buildings that grow into rural towns, and from the smaller size of the cities to the greater rural population density - the human landscape of Asturias is here. I am particularly interested in the individual buildings and how they come together into productive units. 

### Articles

- The Caserío

## The Culinary Mind
What I call the *culinary mind* is the set of both personal and culturally shared ideas and attitudes that inform and determine our food consumption behaviors. Think of these as the subconscious food rituals of our families and our cultures. Much more than outward rituals like religious prohibitions on certain foods or dishes associated so heavily with one holiday that it seems perverse to serve them any other time, the culinary mind is our buried culinary prejudices.[^2] Our culture, much more than our past experiences, determines our food preferences, particularly our expectations of liking or disliking certain foods.[^1]

These cultural and personal expectations, likes and dislikes, and comfort routines are as much a part of the culinary landscape as is the hillsides the apples grow on or the coves the fishing fleet leaves from.

### Articles

- [The Psychogeography of Asturias](/culture/landscape/psychogeography-of-asturias.html)
- Neophobia & Neophilia

## Notes

[^1]: Luo Y, Lohrenz T, Lumpkin EA, Montague PR, Kishida KT (2024) The expectations humans have of a pleasurable sensation asymmetrically shape neuronal responses and subjective experiences to hot sauce. PLoS Biol 22(10): e3002818. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3002818
[^2]: Spence, C. Wine psychology: basic & applied. _Cogn. Research_ **5**, 22 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1186/s41235-020-00225-6

Commit message:

moved all collections into one folder structure
Signed-off-by: tillmanj <jontillman23@gmail.com>

culture/landscape/landscape_index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: The Culinary Landscape of Asturias
subtitle: All food expresses a geography and a culture
permalink: /culture/landscape/
toc: false
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: Landscape
sidebar:
    nav: culture_full
description: Explore how both the natural and built environments of Asturias inform the indissoluble relationship between rural life and gastronomy.
---
{% epigraph 'Life — all life — is in the service of life. Necessary nutrients are made available to life by life in greater and greater richness as the diversity of life increases. The entire landscape comes alive, filled with relationships and relationships within relationships' 'Frank Herbert' 'Dune' %}

{% newthought 'What do I mean when I say' %} the *culinary landscape?* Do I mean the food system, in it's technocratic sense? Or do I mean the menu of food offerings available in a specific place -- the sociological factors that shape an industry that provides food to people?

I mean something different than either of those; I mean the hard facts that, right now, define the gastronomy of a place. Both the natural and the human conditions that make up the actually existing place. I think of that culinary landscape as being made up of three interdependent pieces; the **natural environment**, the **built environment**, and the **culinary mind**. Taken together, and defined mostly by their interplay, the culinary landscape emerges.

{% marginnote 'mn01' 'I am not dismissive of those concerns. I am simply not focused quite so heavily on them. There are many experts who write about food systems from a critical perspective that I enjoy reading and think are vital voices. Among them are [Marion Nestle](https://www.foodpolitics.com/), The [World Food System blog](https://www.foodsystemstories.org/) at ETH Zurich, [Charles Levkoe](https://link.springer.com/search?dc.creator=Charles%20Z.%20Levkoe), and [Molly D. Anderson](https://link.springer.com/search?dc.creator=Molly%20D.%20Anderson). ' %}I use this term to think about something that is usually missing from discussions of food systems. While technically a food system takes into account the physical and human factors of production and consumption, most discussion of food systems these days tends to either be focused on the global span of transportation systems that make up many macro-scale food systems, or on meta questions of environmental, racial, animal, and colonial issues. 

If food systems are comprised of four parts; production, processing, distribution, and consumption, then what I am talking about with the *culinary landscape* concept is the factors that shape and determine the first part of the food system - the production of food.


{% marginnote 'mn02' 'There is even more overlap between the concept of culinary landscape and that of what actual academics call *the [biocultural paradigm](https://socialsci.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Anthropology/Cultural_Anthropology/Cultural_Anthropology_(Evans)/01%3A_What_is_Anthropology/1.03%3A_Biocultural_Approach)*. I am looking at the culinary aspect of the interplay between nature and culture addressed in that paradigm.' %}
I suppose there is quite a bit of overlap between my term culinary landscape and the French term *terroir*, in that we are both interested primarily in the factors that influence the phenotype of of a crop: the environmental context, the farming practices, and the attitudes of the farmers producing them. Collectively these contextual characteristics have an effect on the crops that are grown - that is their *terroir*. They also have an effect on the habits, attitudes, and tastes, of the people who produce and consume those crops, especially when the four stages of a food system (production, processing, distribution, and consumption) are kept relatively local. That effect on the humans and their lived experiences makes up their culinary landscape.

When we talk about how the locations and processes used in Production and Processing impacts the organoleptic qualities of the food, we are discussing *terroir*. When we discuss how the geography, psychogeography, architecture, and infrastructure impact the locations and processes chosen for producing food, we are discussing *the culinary landscape*. 

## The Natural Landscape
The natural environment is the landscape and climate that determines the contours of what our food culture is by setting limits on what is possible. From the mountains to the sea, this is where we, and our food, come from. [*read more...*](/culture/landscape/natural-environment/)

## The Built Environment
The built environment is the changes we as humans have made to the landscape. Here is explore all of the farms, buildings, towns, cities, and special places we make, and how they impact our food culture. [*read more...*](/culture/landscape/built-environment/)

## The Culinary Mind
What I call the *culinary mind* is the set of both personal and culturally shared ideas and attitudes that inform and determine our food consumption behaviors. Just as much as the landscape or the climate, our shared attitudes set the boundaries of what is possible within our food culture. [*read more...*](/culture/landscape/culinary-mind/)
