culture/landscape/culinary-mind/culinary-mind_index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: The Culinary Mind of Asturias
subtitle: 
permalink: /culture/landscape/culinary-mind/
toc: false
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: Built Environment
sidebar:
    nav: culture_full
description: Explore how both the natural and built environments of Asturias inform the indissoluble relationship between rural life and gastronomy.
---
What I call the *culinary mind* is the set of both personal and culturally shared ideas and attitudes that inform and determine our food consumption behaviors. Think of these as the subconscious food rituals of our families and our cultures. Much more than outward rituals like religious prohibitions on certain foods or dishes associated so heavily with one holiday that it seems perverse to serve them any other time, the culinary mind is our buried culinary prejudices.[^2] Our culture, much more than our past experiences, determines our food preferences, particularly our expectations of liking or disliking certain foods.[^1]

These cultural and personal expectations, likes and dislikes, and comfort routines are as much a part of the culinary landscape as is the hillsides the apples grow on or the coves the fishing fleet leaves from.

### Articles

- [The Psychogeography of Asturias](/culture/landscape/culinary-mind/psychogeography-of-asturias.html)
- Neophobia & Neophilia

## Notes
[^1]: Luo Y, Lohrenz T, Lumpkin EA, Montague PR, Kishida KT (2024) The expectations humans have of a pleasurable sensation asymmetrically shape neuronal responses and subjective experiences to hot sauce. PLoS Biol 22(10): e3002818. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3002818
[^2]: Spence, C. Wine psychology: basic & applied. _Cogn. Research_ **5**, 22 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1186/s41235-020-00225-6

Commit message:

llagar-related changes from various sources
Signed-off-by: tillmanj <jontillman23@gmail.com>

culture/landscape/culinary-mind/culinary-mind_index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: The Culinary Mind of Asturias
subtitle: 
permalink: /culture/landscape/culinary-mind/
toc: false
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: Built Environment
sidebar:
    nav: culture_full
description: Explore how both the natural and built environments of Asturias inform the indissoluble relationship between rural life and gastronomy.
---
What I call the *culinary mind* is the set of both personal and culturally shared ideas and attitudes that inform and determine our food consumption behaviors. Think of these as the subconscious food rituals of our families and our cultures. Much more than outward rituals like religious prohibitions on certain foods or dishes associated so heavily with one holiday that it seems perverse to serve them any other time, the culinary mind is our buried culinary prejudices.[^2] Our culture, much more than our past individual experiences, determines our food preferences, particularly our expectations of liking or disliking certain foods.[^1]

These cultural and personal expectations, likes and dislikes, and comfort routines are as much a part of the culinary landscape as is the hillsides the apples grow on or the coves the fishing fleet leaves from.

### Articles

- [Some Notes on the Asturian Character](/culture/landscape/culinary-mind/asturian-character.html): *Unfashionable Anthropology*
- [The Psychogeography of Asturias](/culture/landscape/culinary-mind/psychogeography-of-asturias.html): *A Critique of A Critique of Urban Geography*
- [Neophilia & Neophobia](/culture/landscape/culinary-mind/neophilia-neophobia.html): *Seeking and Avoiding New Foods*
- [Global Cuisine in Asturias](/culture/landscape/culinary-mind/global-world-cuisine.html): *Breaking Free From the Food Museum*

## Notes
[^1]: Luo Y, Lohrenz T, Lumpkin EA, Montague PR, Kishida KT (2024) The expectations humans have of a pleasurable sensation asymmetrically shape neuronal responses and subjective experiences to hot sauce. PLoS Biol 22(10): e3002818. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3002818
[^2]: Spence, C. Wine psychology: basic & applied. _Cogn. Research_ **5**, 22 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1186/s41235-020-00225-6
