about/start here.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Start Here
subtitle: Welcome to Asturias
permalink: /about/start-here/
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---

{% epigraph 'If you can see, look. If you can look, observe' 'Edward of Portugal' 'O leal conselheiro' %}

{% newthought 'Eating Asturias is a website'%} dedicated to bringing the best of Asturian food culture to the English-speaking world. It is my project to explore, document, translate, and study the food culture of Asturias. It is an independent ethnography of food and eating in Asturias. It is produced from an outsider perspective; while I live in Asturias, I did not grow up here.

## Why This Website?
What do people in Asturias eat? Why do they eat those things? How do they feel about their food? What foods do they no longer eat, and why? How do people’s memories of those “forgotten” foods influence their current food choices and attitudes? These are the questions that animate me.

Here is where you can learn about the food and food culture of one of the most interesting regions of Spain. It is a place quite unlike other regions of Spain. It consumes far more cider than anywhere else in Spain (and more per capita than anywhere in the world). It produces more cheeses in a smaller area than anywhere else in the world. It is unique, not just in Spain, but in all of Europe for its adherence to that food connected to geography mentioned above. 

## Who I Am
![Jon Tillman](/assets/images/Jon.jpeg){: width="300px" style="float:right;"}

My name is [Jon Tillman](/about/jon/), and writing about food in Asturias is my second (or maybe third) career. Previously I’ve spent almost my entire professional life around food. I first began working in restaurants at 15, and over the next 20 years held pretty much every conceivable job in food service; from dishwasher to executive chef. When my first child was born I took a step back from the totalizing grind that is life as a chef and started looking for a new thing to do. On my first visit to Asturias I fell in love, and now I live here full time.

When I moved here in 2017, there was precious little information about the region in the English language. Disappointed by that fact, I made the decision to remedy the situation. The result of that decision is this website. It is meant to be the most comprehensive collection of English-language information on the [food culture](/culture/) and [food history](/culture/history/) of Asturias.

## What I Do

### **I Document**
First, and foremost, I am interested in the unsung and endangered. I am constantly in a mad scramble to document things before they slip away into oblivion without record. I am interested in what is being cooked, has been cooked, and will be cooked, by **all** of the people who make up Asturias. Immigrant food is often the best way to see what is universal in a local food culture. For that reason alone, it should be more closely studied. I am not interested in official lists (or even worse, tourist office lists) of what is or is not the correct or authentic Asturian cuisine. To be honest, I find this kind of conservatism misguided, and very boring. I am just as interested in Asturian style pizza or kebab as I am in a classic fabada.

### **I Provide Context**
All meals and all dishes need context. And context is no longer merely place-historical. Internet-connected post-modern societies cross the boundaries of their inherited food traditions constantly. This trans-cultural food knowledge can create or accompany new behavioral patterns, new food preferences, and new eating patterns.

### **I Eat & Drink**
I am, as Raymond Sokolov once called himself, a “gastro-ethnological reporter”. While I do not review restaurants, I do tell stories of them. I point out the places, and dishes, that I think are worth a visitor’s time. My desire is to point you towards good clean cooking.

###**I Cook**
It is not enough to merely passively consume Asturias. I contribute to Asturian food culture through original recipes. While working within the milieu of contemporary Asturian food, I give things my own, immigrant, twist. Partially that is to adapt things to an American kitchen. Partially it is because I feel a need to imprint my own mark on the collective.

I am available during most months of the year to help with vacation questions, planning, or [personalized tours](/visit/tours/). Anything from answering a question or two all the way to a week-long culinary tour of Asturias with translation services and one-of-a-kind experiences. If you are interested in more information, please get in contact with me.

## Where To Start?
To get started on your journey into Asturian cuisine. I have compiled a few of my favorite informational posts in one place. You can’t go wrong starting with any of these:

- [The Reasons You Should Visit Asturias](/visit/) – I share my personal reasons why I think every visitor to Spain should skip the well-worn trail and instead head for Asturias.
- [The Cider House Rules](/culture/cider-ritual/) – A primer on drinking Asturian cider properly.
- [A Brief History of Cider in Asturias](https://eatingasturias.com/wiki/A_Brief_History_of_Cider_in_Asturias "A Brief History of Cider in Asturias") – Cider is more than just a drink in Asturias. In many ways it **is** the history of Asturias. Start here to be well versed in the importance of this unique tipple.
- [The 7 Different Types of Asturian Cheese](https://eatingasturias.com/wiki/The_7_Different_Types_of_Asturian_Cheese "The 7 Different Types of Asturian Cheese") – Asturias has dozens of cheeses. Here’s a guide to making sense of them, using internationally accepted types.
- [Asturian Sausages](https://eatingasturias.com/wiki/Asturian_Sausages "Asturian Sausages") – There are **tons** of different sausages in Asturias. Here I break them down into groups and talk about the ones I think you should try as soon as possible.
- [Craft Beer In Asturias – A Broad Overview](https://eatingasturias.com/wiki/Craft_Beer_In_Asturias "Craft Beer In Asturias") – Get up to speed on the rapidly expanding and maturing craft brewing scene in Asturias.

## Next Steps
Now that you've seen the entry points, dive in! Start cooking some hearty [recipes](/recipes/), learning the stories behind them, and seeing where they are cooked and served daily.

## Further Resources
Check out the links at the bottom of every page for a whole universe of hidden gems. I have a bibliography you can use for further reading, a list of food bloggers and Asturian news sources to check out, a list of suppliers in the United States of Asturian ingredients, a Glossary of food related terms that threatens to become a bilingual encyclopedia, and some other great stuff as well.

Commit message:

culture section framework
Signed-off-by: tillmanj <jontillman23@gmail.com>

about/start here.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Start Here: A Brief Introduction to Eating Asturias"
subtitle: Welcome to Asturias
permalink: /about/start-here/
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
description: "An introduction to the Eating Asturias website and the topics it covers: recipes, food culture, places to visit, and a brief bio of the author; Jon Tillman"
keywords:
    - eating asturias
    - food culture
    - recipes
---

{% epigraph 'If you can see, look. If you can look, observe' 'Edward of Portugal' 'O leal conselheiro' %}

{% newthought 'Eating Asturias is a website'%} dedicated to bringing the best of Asturian food culture to the English-speaking world. It is my project to explore, document, translate, and study the food culture of Asturias. It is an independent ethnography of food and eating in Asturias. It is produced from an outsider perspective; while I live in Asturias, I did not grow up here.

## Why This Website?
What do people in Asturias eat? Why do they eat those things? How do they feel about their food? What foods do they no longer eat, and why? How do people’s memories of those “forgotten” foods influence their current food choices and attitudes? These are the questions that animate me.

Here is where you can learn about the food and food culture of one of the most interesting regions of Spain. It is a place quite unlike other regions of Spain. It consumes far more cider than anywhere else in Spain (and more per capita than anywhere in the world). It produces more cheeses in a smaller area than anywhere else in the world. It is unique, not just in Spain, but in all of Europe for its adherence to that food connected to geography mentioned above. 

## Who I Am
![Jon Tillman](/assets/images/Jon.jpeg){: width="300px" style="float:right;"}

My name is [Jon Tillman](/about/jon/), and writing about food in Asturias is my second (or maybe third) career. Previously I’ve spent almost my entire professional life around food. I first began working in restaurants at 15, and over the next 20 years held pretty much every conceivable job in food service; from dishwasher to executive chef. When my first child was born I took a step back from the totalizing grind that is life as a chef and started looking for a new thing to do. On my first visit to Asturias I fell in love, and now I live here full time.

When I moved here in 2017, there was precious little information about the region in the English language. Disappointed by that fact, I made the decision to remedy the situation. The result of that decision is this website. It is meant to be the most comprehensive collection of English-language information on the [food culture](/culture/) and [food history](/culture/history/) of Asturias.

## What I Do

### **I Document**
First, and foremost, I am interested in the unsung and endangered. I am constantly in a mad scramble to document things before they slip away into oblivion without record. I am interested in what is being cooked, has been cooked, and will be cooked, by **all** of the people who make up Asturias. Immigrant food is often the best way to see what is universal in a local food culture. For that reason alone, it should be more closely studied. I am not interested in official lists (or even worse, tourist office lists) of what is or is not the correct or authentic Asturian cuisine. To be honest, I find this kind of conservatism misguided, and very boring. I am just as interested in Asturian style pizza or kebab as I am in a classic fabada.

### **I Provide Context**
All meals and all dishes need context. And context is no longer merely place-historical. Internet-connected post-modern societies cross the boundaries of their inherited food traditions constantly. This trans-cultural food knowledge can create or accompany new behavioral patterns, new food preferences, and new eating patterns.

### **I Eat & Drink**
I am, as Raymond Sokolov once called himself, a “gastro-ethnological reporter”. While I do not review restaurants, I do tell stories of them. I point out the places, and dishes, that I think are worth a visitor’s time. My desire is to point you towards good clean cooking.

###**I Cook**
It is not enough to merely passively consume Asturias. I contribute to Asturian food culture through original recipes. While working within the milieu of contemporary Asturian food, I give things my own, immigrant, twist. Partially that is to adapt things to an American kitchen. Partially it is because I feel a need to imprint my own mark on the collective.

I am available during most months of the year to help with vacation questions, planning, or [personalized tours](/visit/tours/). Anything from answering a question or two all the way to a week-long culinary tour of Asturias with translation services and one-of-a-kind experiences. If you are interested in more information, please get in contact with me.

## Where To Start?
To get started on your journey into Asturian cuisine. I have compiled a few of my favorite informational posts in one place. You can’t go wrong starting with any of these:

- [The Reasons You Should Visit Asturias](/visit/) – I share my personal reasons why I think every visitor to Spain should skip the well-worn trail and instead head for Asturias.
- [The Cider House Rules](/culture/cider-ritual/) – A primer on drinking Asturian cider properly.
- [A Brief History of Cider in Asturias](https://eatingasturias.com/wiki/A_Brief_History_of_Cider_in_Asturias "A Brief History of Cider in Asturias") – Cider is more than just a drink in Asturias. In many ways it **is** the history of Asturias. Start here to be well versed in the importance of this unique tipple.
- [The 7 Different Types of Asturian Cheese](https://eatingasturias.com/wiki/The_7_Different_Types_of_Asturian_Cheese "The 7 Different Types of Asturian Cheese") – Asturias has dozens of cheeses. Here’s a guide to making sense of them, using internationally accepted types.
- [Asturian Sausages](https://eatingasturias.com/wiki/Asturian_Sausages "Asturian Sausages") – There are **tons** of different sausages in Asturias. Here I break them down into groups and talk about the ones I think you should try as soon as possible.
- [Craft Beer In Asturias – A Broad Overview](https://eatingasturias.com/wiki/Craft_Beer_In_Asturias "Craft Beer In Asturias") – Get up to speed on the rapidly expanding and maturing craft brewing scene in Asturias.

## Next Steps
Now that you've seen the entry points, dive in! Start cooking some hearty [recipes](/recipes/), learning the stories behind them, and seeing where they are cooked and served daily.

## Further Resources
Check out the links at the bottom of every page for a whole universe of hidden gems. I have a bibliography you can use for further reading, a list of food bloggers and Asturian news sources to check out, a list of suppliers in the United States of Asturian ingredients, a Glossary of food related terms that threatens to become a bilingual encyclopedia, and some other great stuff as well.
