culture/products/product_index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Asturian Artisanal Foods
subtitle: a brief overview
permalink: /culture/products/
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: Artisan Products
sidebar:
  nav: culture_full
---
{% epigraph 'Tradition is a guide and not a jailer.' 'W. Somerset Maugham.' 'Mr. Maugham Himself (1954)' %}

{% newthought 'The foods we make to keep,'%} the stores we lay by, these are honest and unavoidable expressions of our food culture. They tell us what we can waste in extravagant preparations, and what we dare not waste any of, transforming even the most suspect bits into something approximating a delicacy. The story of where we come from, and the hardships we have come through, are told in what we preserve and how we preserve it. These foods, over time, become the products that define our food culture -- artisanal expressions of past privations, elevated now into celebrations of taste and ingenuity.

I am not interested in debating legalistic definitions of what is artisanal or not. Partially because, as Justice Potter Stewart said "*I know it when I see it*".{% sidenote 'm01' 'Supreme Court Justice Stewart was describing his threshold test for obscenity in Jacobellis v. Ohio, and himself paraphrasing Arthur Conan Doyle who in *The Hound of the Baskervilles* has Sherlock Holmes comment "I know what is good when I see it." ' %} And partially because what I am talking about is the general class of artisanal foods produced in Asturias and associated closely with that place, not about the *bona fides* of one particular producer.

## Sidra Natural
The most famous Asturian product, cider, is the defining feature of the region. Without exaggeration, I can confidently say that life in Asturias revolves around this green-gold liquid. For that reason, there is much to be said about it.

*learn more:* [Sidra Natural](/culture/products/cider/)

## Craft Beer
Spain is an enthusiastic beer drinking nation, and it is finally beginning to develop the craft brewing movement that befits such a sudsy place. In my estimation, the majority of the craft brewing is being done in the north of the country, especially concentrated in an arc from the Basque Country to western Asturias. While not as pervasive as cider making, craft brewing is now relatively common across Asturias, and a number of excellent breweries exist.

*learn more:* [Craft Beer](/culture/products/beer/)

## Cheese
Forty cheeses. Fifty cheeses. Maybe one hundred cheeses. It all comes down to how you count them. No matter how many cheeses you think Asturias has, the certain thing is, it’s a lot. More than any other region in Spain by a wide margin. By my count it is just over 320 individual cheeses in roughly 100 styles, organized by seven general types.

*learn more:* [Asturian Cheese](/culture/products/cheese/)

## Embutidos
There are quite a number of sausages and sausage-adjacent things made in Asturias. Not as many as cheeses, mind you, but that would be a Herculean feat. Regardless, there are a huge variety of traditional forms of *charcuterie* to explore.{% sidenote 's02' 'The French *charcuterie* as opposed to the Spanish *charcutería* for the simple fact that while technically the Spanish term can mean both the art of preparing meat products and to the store specialized in preparing them, the second definition is the **only** one you will ever hear used in Spain.' %}

*learn more:* [Embutidos](/culture/products/embutidos/)

## Wine
Winemaking in Asturias is a relatively small, relatively new thing. Having been so concentrated on cider, and it's attendant apple orchards for thousands of years, it is only recently that anyone has made any serious attempt to grow wine grapes in the region. However, there is now a {% glossary DOP %} Canges de Narcea that is beginning to put out very decent wines in the region.

*learn more:* [Asturian Wine](/culture/products/wine/)

## Other Craft Foods
The above categories are not the sum total of artisan food products in Asturias. The ingenuity and resourcefulness of people makes that a certain impossibility. I have rounded up all the one-off and niche products into a category of their own.

*learn more:* [Other Craft Foods](/culture/products/misc/)

Commit message:

moved all collections into one folder structure
Signed-off-by: tillmanj <jontillman23@gmail.com>

culture/products/product_index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Asturian Artisanal Foods
subtitle: a brief overview
permalink: /culture/products/
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: Artisan Products
sidebar:
  nav: culture_full
---
{% epigraph 'Tradition is a guide and not a jailer.' 'W. Somerset Maugham.' 'Mr. Maugham Himself (1954)' %}

{% newthought 'The foods we make to keep,'%} the stores we lay by, these are honest and unavoidable expressions of our food culture. They tell us what we can waste in extravagant preparations, and what we dare not waste any of, transforming even the most suspect bits into something approximating a delicacy. The story of where we come from, and the hardships we have come through, are told in what we preserve and how we preserve it. These foods, over time, become the products that define our food culture -- artisanal expressions of past privations, elevated now into celebrations of taste and ingenuity.

In addition to the raw ingredients common in Asturian cooking, there is a wide range of what the food industry calls 'value-added products' common in Asturian cooking. Indeed, if you were to ask people what they knew about Asturian cooking or Asturian food, their answer would almost certainly involve one or more of these products. Cabrales cheese, sidra natural, and fabada make up the "holy trinity" of Asturian food in the popular imagination, and all of them are the outcome of the Asturian food products tradition.

In Asturias preserving food is a preoccupation, and one of the simplest ways to use a harvest is to transform it into a more stable version of itself. This primary processing is, to me, the defining aspect of Asturian cuisine.

More than anything else, the products of Asturian preserving define the cuisine of the region. Famous for it's cheeses, cider, sausages, and dried bean dishes, it is developing a reputation as well for its beers and wines. 

I am not interested in debating legalistic definitions of what is artisanal or not. Partially because, as Justice Potter Stewart said "*I know it when I see it*".{% sidenote 'm01' 'Supreme Court Justice Stewart was describing his threshold test for obscenity in Jacobellis v. Ohio, and himself paraphrasing Arthur Conan Doyle who in *The Hound of the Baskervilles* has Sherlock Holmes comment "I know what is good when I see it." ' %} And partially because what I am talking about is the general class of artisanal foods produced in Asturias and associated closely with that place, not about the *bona fides* of one particular producer.

## Sidra Natural
The defining taste of Asturias is, without any hyperbole, sidra natural. The growing of apples, turning them into a unique cider, bottling it, pouring it, drinking it, cooking with it, and talking about it are preoccupations that permeate Asturian culture. From prehistory to now, much of Asturian life has revolved around cider. Asturian culture (food and otherwise) continues to revolve around this famous beverage. From visits to llagares to tasting notes on individual ciders from Asturias, you can find it here. 

The most famous Asturian product, cider, is the defining feature of the region. Without exaggeration, I can confidently say that life in Asturias revolves around this green-gold liquid. For that reason, there is much to be said about it.

*learn more:* [Sidra Natural](/culture/products/cider/)

## Craft Beer
Craft beer in Asturias is growing steadily, as it is in the rest of Spain. From early days when craft beer was hard to find, to now, when the larger Asturian breweries can be found essentially everywhere, has been only a decade. It is not unusual now to go to the agricultural supply and feed store and be able to pick up a six pack of local beer on the way out. Sure, some craft beer bars are still achingly hip and keep the same hours as nightclubs (opening at 18:00 or later for instance), but in general, the process of local and craft beer becoming normal or preferred, is happening at a terrific pace in Asturias. 

Spain is an enthusiastic beer drinking nation, and it is finally beginning to develop the craft brewing movement that befits such a sudsy place. In my estimation, the majority of the craft brewing is being done in the north of the country, especially concentrated in an arc from the Basque Country to western Asturias. While not as pervasive as cider making, craft brewing is now relatively common across Asturias, and a number of excellent breweries exist.

*learn more:* [Craft Beer](/culture/products/beer/)

## Cheese
Cheese is probably my favorite thing about living in Asturias. The sheer number of cheeses available here is wonderful. There is no commonly accepted way to decide how many cheeses are produced here, and really, it doesn't matter so much. I use Julia Harbut's seven general types of cheese, and then just catalog all of the non-industrial expressions of them I come across. By far, this is my favorite part of this website. 

Forty cheeses. Fifty cheeses. Maybe one hundred cheeses. It all comes down to how you count them. No matter how many cheeses you think Asturias has, the certain thing is, it’s a lot. More than any other region in Spain by a wide margin. By my count it is just over 320 individual cheeses in roughly 100 styles, organized by seven general types.

*learn more:* [Asturian Cheese](/culture/products/cheese/)

## Embutidos
Everyone in Spain, and more and more people outside the peninsula, know the two most famous Asturian sausages now. The smoked chorizo and morcilla are famous, and protected by DOPs. But there is a whole world of other local Asturian sausages – some easy to find, some very local and obscure. 

There are quite a number of sausages and sausage-adjacent things made in Asturias. Not as many as cheeses, mind you, but that would be a Herculean feat. Regardless, there are a huge variety of traditional forms of *charcuterie* to explore.{% sidenote 's02' 'The French *charcuterie* as opposed to the Spanish *charcutería* for the simple fact that while technically the Spanish term can mean both the art of preparing meat products and to the store specialized in preparing them, the second definition is the **only** one you will ever hear used in Spain.' %}

*learn more:* [Embutidos](/culture/products/embutidos/)

## Wine
It wasn't so long ago that Asturias' claim to fame when it came to wine was in being the only region of Spain without a wine DOP. In 2008 that changed, and the valleys around Cangas received their own appellation: Denominación Origen Protegida Cangas. From there, the region has gone from strength to strength, and now counts 8 bodegas producing wines in the DOP. 

Winemaking in Asturias is a relatively small, relatively new thing. Having been so concentrated on cider, and it's attendant apple orchards for thousands of years, it is only recently that anyone has made any serious attempt to grow wine grapes in the region. However, there is now a {% glossary DOP %} Canges de Narcea that is beginning to put out very decent wines in the region.

*learn more:* [Asturian Wine](/culture/products/wine/)

## Other Craft Foods
The above categories are not the sum total of artisan food products in Asturias. The ingenuity and resourcefulness of people makes that a certain impossibility. I have rounded up all the one-off and niche products into a category of their own.

*learn more:* [Other Craft Foods](/culture/products/misc/)
